# Day 1 – Basic RTL Design and Simulation

## ✅ Objective
- To design and verify a simple RTL circuit using Verilog.
- Write a testbench to apply input vectors.
- Simulate using **iverilog** and visualize results with **GTKWave**.

## 🛠️ Tools Used
-iVerilog → Open-source Verilog compiler and simulator, used to compile and run Verilog design files.
-GTKWave → Waveform viewer to analyze simulation output signals visually (timing diagrams).
-Yosys → Open-source framework for RTL synthesis, mainly used to synthesize Verilog code into a gate-level netlist.

iVerilog → For compiling and simulating Verilog code.

GTKWave → For viewing waveforms generated by simulation.

Yosys → For performing synthesis (converting RTL design into gate-level representation).

**📘 Key Terms**
-Design → The main Verilog code/module that implements the required logic or digital circuit (e.g., adder, counter, FSM).
-Testbench → A separate Verilog file written to test the design. It applies input stimulus, monitors outputs, and verifies that the design works correctly. The testbench is not synthesized, it is only for simulation.

**Lab Session 1 – Activities and Commands**
1. Virtual Machine Setup
⦁	Opened the VM for the RTL workshop.
⦁	Cloned the workshop repository:
git clone (https://github.com/kunalg123/sky130RTLDesignAndSynthesisWorkshop.git)

Navigated into the library:
cd sky130RTLDesignAndSynthesisWorkshop
cd my_lib
ls -- # Viewing all .library files used for synthesis 

2.Verilog Simulation with iVerilog
⦁	Navigated to Verilog files folder:
cd sky130RTLDesignAndSynthesisWorkshop
cd verilog_files/

Compiled RTL and testbench:
iverilog good_mux.v tb_good_mux.v 
Checked compiled output:
ls 
./a.out 

Generated GTK waveform dump which happended internally 
vcd-file gtk-tb-goodmux.vcd 

Opened GTKWave to view waveform:
gtkwave tb_good_mux.vcd → opens waveform for verification.

Comments:
⦁	iverilog goodmux.v tb-goodmux.v → compiles design and testbench.
⦁	gtkwave gtk-tb-goodmux.vcd 
4. RTL Synthesis with Yosys
⦁	Invoked Yosys:
yosys 
Steps in Yosys workflow:
1.	Read Liberty file (standard cell info for synthesis):
read_liberty -lib path/to/file.lib 
Read Verilog design:
read_verilog path/to/design.v 
Perform synthesis (synth - top module):
synth -top <module_name> 
Generate netlist using ABC:
abc -liberty path/to/file.lib 
Analyze and show results:
show 
Comments:
⦁	read_liberty → loads standard cell library for synthesis.
⦁	read_verilog → loads the design RTL.
⦁	synth -top → synthesizes the design module.
⦁	abc -liberty → maps design to technology cells.
⦁	show → visualizes netlist or synthesis results.
